docs/concepts/models.md, before:

---
summary: "Models CLI: list, set, aliases, fallbacks, scan, status"
read_when:
  - Adding or modifying models CLI (models list/set/scan/aliases/fallbacks)
  - Changing model fallback behavior or selection UX
  - Updating model scan probes (tools/images)
---
# Models CLI

See [/concepts/model-failover](/concepts/model-failover) for auth profile
rotation, cooldowns, and how that interacts with fallbacks.

## How model selection works

Clawdbot selects models in this order:

1) **Primary** model (`agent.model.primary` or `agent.model`).
2) **Fallbacks** in `agent.model.fallbacks` (in order).
3) **Provider auth failover** happens inside a provider before moving to the
   next model.

Related:
- `agent.models` is the allowlist/catalog of models Clawdbot can use (plus aliases).
- `agent.imageModel` is used **only when** the primary model can’t accept images.

## Config keys (overview)

- `agent.model.primary` and `agent.model.fallbacks`
- `agent.imageModel.primary` and `agent.imageModel.fallbacks`
- `agent.models` (allowlist + aliases + provider params)
- `models.providers` (custom providers written into `models.json`)

Model refs are normalized to lowercase. Provider aliases like `z.ai/*` normalize
to `zai/*`.

## CLI commands

```bash
clawdbot models list
clawdbot models status
clawdbot models set <provider/model>
clawdbot models set-image <provider/model>

clawdbot models aliases list
clawdbot models aliases add <alias> <provider/model>
clawdbot models aliases remove <alias>

clawdbot models fallbacks list
clawdbot models fallbacks add <provider/model>
clawdbot models fallbacks remove <provider/model>
clawdbot models fallbacks clear

clawdbot models image-fallbacks list
clawdbot models image-fallbacks add <provider/model>
clawdbot models image-fallbacks remove <provider/model>
clawdbot models image-fallbacks clear
```

`clawdbot models` (no subcommand) is a shortcut for `models status`.

### `models list`

Shows configured models by default. Useful flags:

- `--all`: full catalog
- `--local`: local providers only
- `--provider <name>`: filter by provider
- `--plain`: one model per line
- `--json`: machine‑readable output

### `models status`

Shows the resolved primary model, fallbacks, image model, and an auth overview
of configured providers. `--plain` prints only the resolved primary model.

## Scanning (OpenRouter free models)

`clawdbot models scan` inspects OpenRouter’s **free model catalog** and can
optionally probe models for tool and image support.

Key flags:

- `--no-probe`: skip live probes (metadata only)
- `--min-params <b>`: minimum parameter size (billions)
- `--max-age-days <days>`: skip older models
- `--provider <name>`: provider prefix filter
- `--max-candidates <n>`: fallback list size
- `--set-default`: set `agent.model.primary` to the first selection
- `--set-image`: set `agent.imageModel.primary` to the first image selection

Probing requires an OpenRouter API key (from auth profiles or
`OPENROUTER_API_KEY`). Without a key, use `--no-probe` to list candidates only.

Scan results are ranked by:
1) Image support
2) Tool latency
3) Context size
4) Parameter count

Input
- OpenRouter `/models` list (filter `:free`)
- Requires OpenRouter API key from auth profiles or `OPENROUTER_API_KEY` (see [/environment](/environment))
- Optional filters: `--max-age-days`, `--min-params`, `--provider`, `--max-candidates`
- Probe controls: `--timeout`, `--concurrency`

When run in a TTY, you can select fallbacks interactively. In non‑interactive
mode, pass `--yes` to accept defaults.

## Models registry (`models.json`)

Custom providers in `models.providers` are written into `models.json` under the
agent directory (default `~/.clawdbot/agents/<agentId>/models.json`). This file
is merged by default unless `models.mode` is set to `replace`.

Commit message:

feat(models): add oauth auth health

docs/concepts/models.md, after:

---
summary: "Models CLI: list, set, aliases, fallbacks, scan, status"
read_when:
  - Adding or modifying models CLI (models list/set/scan/aliases/fallbacks)
  - Changing model fallback behavior or selection UX
  - Updating model scan probes (tools/images)
---
# Models CLI

See [/concepts/model-failover](/concepts/model-failover) for auth profile
rotation, cooldowns, and how that interacts with fallbacks.

## How model selection works

Clawdbot selects models in this order:

1) **Primary** model (`agent.model.primary` or `agent.model`).
2) **Fallbacks** in `agent.model.fallbacks` (in order).
3) **Provider auth failover** happens inside a provider before moving to the
   next model.

Related:
- `agent.models` is the allowlist/catalog of models Clawdbot can use (plus aliases).
- `agent.imageModel` is used **only when** the primary model can’t accept images.

## Config keys (overview)

- `agent.model.primary` and `agent.model.fallbacks`
- `agent.imageModel.primary` and `agent.imageModel.fallbacks`
- `agent.models` (allowlist + aliases + provider params)
- `models.providers` (custom providers written into `models.json`)

Model refs are normalized to lowercase. Provider aliases like `z.ai/*` normalize
to `zai/*`.

## CLI commands

```bash
clawdbot models list
clawdbot models status
clawdbot models set <provider/model>
clawdbot models set-image <provider/model>

clawdbot models aliases list
clawdbot models aliases add <alias> <provider/model>
clawdbot models aliases remove <alias>

clawdbot models fallbacks list
clawdbot models fallbacks add <provider/model>
clawdbot models fallbacks remove <provider/model>
clawdbot models fallbacks clear

clawdbot models image-fallbacks list
clawdbot models image-fallbacks add <provider/model>
clawdbot models image-fallbacks remove <provider/model>
clawdbot models image-fallbacks clear
```

`clawdbot models` (no subcommand) is a shortcut for `models status`.

### `models list`

Shows configured models by default. Useful flags:

- `--all`: full catalog
- `--local`: local providers only
- `--provider <name>`: filter by provider
- `--plain`: one model per line
- `--json`: machine‑readable output

### `models status`

Shows the resolved primary model, fallbacks, image model, and an auth overview
of configured providers. It also surfaces OAuth expiry status for profiles found
in the auth store (warns within 24h by default). `--plain` prints only the
resolved primary model.
OAuth status is always shown (and included in `--json` output). If a configured
provider has no credentials, `models status` prints a **Missing auth** section.
JSON includes `auth.oauth` (warn window + profiles) and `auth.providers`
(effective auth per provider).
Use `--check` for automation (exit `1` when missing/expired, `2` when expiring).

## Scanning (OpenRouter free models)

`clawdbot models scan` inspects OpenRouter’s **free model catalog** and can
optionally probe models for tool and image support.

Key flags:

- `--no-probe`: skip live probes (metadata only)
- `--min-params <b>`: minimum parameter size (billions)
- `--max-age-days <days>`: skip older models
- `--provider <name>`: provider prefix filter
- `--max-candidates <n>`: fallback list size
- `--set-default`: set `agent.model.primary` to the first selection
- `--set-image`: set `agent.imageModel.primary` to the first image selection

Probing requires an OpenRouter API key (from auth profiles or
`OPENROUTER_API_KEY`). Without a key, use `--no-probe` to list candidates only.

Scan results are ranked by:
1) Image support
2) Tool latency
3) Context size
4) Parameter count

Input
- OpenRouter `/models` list (filter `:free`)
- Requires OpenRouter API key from auth profiles or `OPENROUTER_API_KEY` (see [/environment](/environment))
- Optional filters: `--max-age-days`, `--min-params`, `--provider`, `--max-candidates`
- Probe controls: `--timeout`, `--concurrency`

When run in a TTY, you can select fallbacks interactively. In non‑interactive
mode, pass `--yes` to accept defaults.

## Models registry (`models.json`)

Custom providers in `models.providers` are written into `models.json` under the
agent directory (default `~/.clawdbot/agents/<agentId>/models.json`). This file
is merged by default unless `models.mode` is set to `replace`.
