docs/cli/index.md, before:

---
summary: "Clawdbot CLI reference for `clawdbot` commands, subcommands, and options"
read_when:
  - Adding or modifying CLI commands or options
  - Documenting new command surfaces
---

# CLI reference

This page describes the current CLI behavior. If commands change, update this doc.

## Global flags

- `--dev`: isolate state under `~/.clawdbot-dev` and shift default ports.
- `--profile <name>`: isolate state under `~/.clawdbot-<name>`.
- `-V`, `--version`, `-v`: print version and exit.

## Output styling

- ANSI colors and progress indicators only render in TTY sessions.
- OSC-8 hyperlinks render as clickable links in supported terminals; otherwise we fall back to plain URLs.
- `--json` (and `--plain` where supported) disables styling for clean output.
- Long-running commands show a progress indicator (OSC 9;4 when supported).

## Color palette

Clawdbot uses a lobster palette for CLI output.

- `accent` (#FF5A2D): headings, provider labels, primary highlights.
- `accentBright` (#FF7A3D): command names, emphasis.
- `accentDim` (#D14A22): secondary highlight text.
- `info` (#FF8A5B): informational values.
- `success` (#2FBF71): success states.
- `warn` (#FFB020): warnings, fallbacks, attention.
- `error` (#E23D2D): errors, failures.
- `muted` (#8B7F77): de-emphasis, metadata.

## Command tree

```
clawdbot [--dev] [--profile <name>] <command>
  setup
  onboard
  configure (alias: config)
  doctor
  providers
    list
    status
    add
    remove
    login
    logout
  skills
    list
    info
    check
  send
  poll
  agent
  agents
    list
    add
    delete
  status
  health
  sessions
  gateway
    call
    health
    status
  models
    list
    status
    set
    set-image
    aliases list|add|remove
    fallbacks list|add|remove|clear
    image-fallbacks list|add|remove|clear
    scan
  wake
  cron
    status
    list
    add
    edit
    rm
    enable
    disable
    runs
    run
  nodes
    status
    describe
    list
    pending
    approve
    reject
    rename
    invoke
    run
    notify
    camera list|snap|clip
    canvas snapshot
    screen record
    location get
  browser
    status
    start
    stop
    reset-profile
    tabs
    open
    focus
    close
    profiles
    create-profile
    delete-profile
    screenshot
    snapshot
    navigate
    resize
    click
    type
    press
    hover
    drag
    select
    upload
    fill
    dialog
    wait
    evaluate
    console
    pdf
  hooks
    gmail setup|run
  pairing
    list
    approve
  docs
  dns
    setup
  tui
```

## Setup + onboarding

### `setup`
Initialize config + workspace.

Options:
- `--workspace <dir>`: agent workspace path (default `~/clawd`).
- `--wizard`: run the onboarding wizard.
- `--non-interactive`: run wizard without prompts.
- `--mode <local|remote>`: wizard mode.
- `--remote-url <url>`: remote Gateway URL.
- `--remote-token <token>`: remote Gateway token.

Wizard auto-runs when any wizard flags are present (`--non-interactive`, `--mode`, `--remote-url`, `--remote-token`).

### `onboard`
Interactive wizard to set up gateway, workspace, and skills.

Options:
- `--workspace <dir>`
- `--non-interactive`
- `--mode <local|remote>`
- `--auth-choice <oauth|claude-cli|openai-codex|codex-cli|antigravity|apiKey|minimax|skip>`
- `--anthropic-api-key <key>`
- `--gateway-port <port>`
- `--gateway-bind <loopback|lan|tailnet|auto>`
- `--gateway-auth <off|token|password>`
- `--gateway-token <token>`
- `--gateway-password <password>`
- `--remote-url <url>`
- `--remote-token <token>`
- `--tailscale <off|serve|funnel>`
- `--tailscale-reset-on-exit`
- `--install-daemon`
- `--daemon-runtime <node|bun>`
- `--skip-skills`
- `--skip-health`
- `--node-manager <npm|pnpm|bun>`
- `--json`

### `configure` / `config`
Interactive configuration wizard (models, providers, skills, gateway).

### `doctor`
Health checks + quick fixes (config + gateway + legacy services).

Options:
- `--no-workspace-suggestions`: disable workspace memory hints.
- `--yes`: accept defaults without prompting (headless).
- `--non-interactive`: skip prompts; apply safe migrations only.
- `--deep`: scan system services for extra gateway installs.

## Provider helpers

### `providers`
Manage chat provider accounts (WhatsApp/Telegram/Discord/Slack/Signal/iMessage).

Subcommands:
- `providers list`: show configured chat providers and auth profiles (Claude Code + Codex CLI OAuth sync included).
- `providers status`: check gateway reachability and provider health (`--probe` to verify credentials and run small provider audits; use `status --deep` for local-only probes).
- Tip: `providers status` prints warnings with suggested fixes when it can detect common misconfigurations (then points you to `clawdbot doctor`).
- `providers add`: wizard-style setup when no flags are passed; flags switch to non-interactive mode.
- `providers remove`: disable by default; pass `--delete` to remove config entries without prompts.
- `providers login`: interactive provider login (WhatsApp Web only).
- `providers logout`: log out of a provider session (WhatsApp Web only).

Common options:
- `--provider <name>`: `whatsapp|telegram|discord|slack|signal|imessage`
- `--account <id>`: provider account id (default `default`)
- `--name <label>`: display name for the account

`providers login` options:
- `--provider <provider>` (default `whatsapp`; supports `whatsapp`/`web`)
- `--account <id>`
- `--verbose`

`providers logout` options:
- `--provider <provider>` (default `whatsapp`; supports `whatsapp`/`web`)
- `--account <id>`

`providers list` options:
- `--no-usage`: skip provider usage/quota snapshots (OAuth/API-backed only).
- `--json`: output JSON (includes usage unless `--no-usage` is set).

OAuth sync sources:
- Claude Code → `anthropic:claude-cli`
  - macOS: Keychain item "Claude Code-credentials" (choose "Always Allow" to avoid launchd prompts)
  - Linux/Windows: `~/.claude/.credentials.json`
- `~/.codex/auth.json` → `openai-codex:codex-cli`

More detail: [/concepts/oauth](/concepts/oauth)

Examples:
```bash
clawdbot providers add --provider telegram --account alerts --name "Alerts Bot" --token $TELEGRAM_BOT_TOKEN
clawdbot providers add --provider discord --account work --name "Work Bot" --token $DISCORD_BOT_TOKEN
clawdbot providers remove --provider discord --account work --delete
clawdbot providers status --probe
clawdbot status --deep
```

### `skills`
List and inspect available skills plus readiness info.

Subcommands:
- `skills list`: list skills (default when no subcommand).
- `skills info <name>`: show details for one skill.
- `skills check`: summary of ready vs missing requirements.

Options:
- `--eligible`: show only ready skills.
- `--json`: output JSON (no styling).
- `-v`, `--verbose`: include missing requirements detail.

Tip: use `npx clawdhub` to search, install, and sync skills.

### `pairing`
Approve DM pairing requests across providers.

Subcommands:
- `pairing list --provider <telegram|signal|imessage|discord|slack|whatsapp> [--json]`
- `pairing approve --provider <...> <code> [--notify]`

### `hooks gmail`
Gmail Pub/Sub hook setup + runner. See [/automation/gmail-pubsub](/automation/gmail-pubsub).

Subcommands:
- `hooks gmail setup` (requires `--account <email>`; supports `--project`, `--topic`, `--subscription`, `--label`, `--hook-url`, `--hook-token`, `--push-token`, `--bind`, `--port`, `--path`, `--include-body`, `--max-bytes`, `--renew-minutes`, `--tailscale`, `--tailscale-path`, `--push-endpoint`, `--json`)
- `hooks gmail run` (runtime overrides for the same flags)

### `dns setup`
Wide-area discovery DNS helper (CoreDNS + Tailscale). See [/gateway/discovery](/gateway/discovery).

Options:
- `--apply`: install/update CoreDNS config (requires sudo; macOS only).

## Messaging + agent

### `send`
Send a message through a provider.

Required:
- `--to <dest>`
- `--message <text>`

Options:
- `--media <path-or-url>`
- `--gif-playback`
- `--provider <whatsapp|telegram|discord|slack|signal|imessage>`
- `--account <id>` (WhatsApp)
- `--dry-run`
- `--json`
- `--verbose`

### `poll`
Create a poll (WhatsApp or Discord).

Required:
- `--to <id>`
- `--question <text>`
- `--option <choice>` (repeat 2-12 times)

Options:
- `--max-selections <n>`
- `--duration-hours <n>` (Discord)
- `--provider <whatsapp|discord>`
- `--dry-run`
- `--json`
- `--verbose`

### `agent`
Run one agent turn via the Gateway (or `--local` embedded).

Required:
- `--message <text>`

Options:
- `--to <dest>` (for session key and optional delivery)
- `--session-id <id>`
- `--thinking <off|minimal|low|medium|high>`
- `--verbose <on|off>`
- `--provider <whatsapp|telegram|discord|slack|signal|imessage>`
- `--local`
- `--deliver`
- `--json`
- `--timeout <seconds>`

### `agents`
Manage isolated agents (workspaces + auth + routing).

#### `agents list`
List configured agents.

Options:
- `--json`
- `--bindings`

#### `agents add [name]`
Add a new isolated agent. Runs the guided wizard unless flags (or `--non-interactive`) are passed; `--workspace` is required in non-interactive mode.

Options:
- `--workspace <dir>`
- `--model <id>`
- `--agent-dir <dir>`
- `--bind <provider[:accountId]>` (repeatable)
- `--non-interactive`
- `--json`

Binding specs use `provider[:accountId]`. When `accountId` is omitted for WhatsApp, the default account id is used.

#### `agents delete <id>`
Delete an agent and prune its workspace + state.

Options:
- `--force`
- `--json`

### `status`
Show linked session health and recent recipients.

Options:
- `--json`
- `--deep` (probe providers)
- `--usage` (show provider usage/quota)
- `--timeout <ms>`
- `--verbose`

### Usage tracking
Clawdbot can surface provider usage/quota when OAuth/API creds are available.

Surfaces:
- `/status` (adds a short usage line when available)
- `clawdbot status --usage` (prints full provider breakdown)
- macOS menu bar (Usage section under Context)

Notes:
- Data comes directly from provider usage endpoints (no estimates).
- Providers: Anthropic, GitHub Copilot, Gemini CLI, Antigravity, OpenAI Codex OAuth, plus z.ai when an API key is configured.
- If no matching credentials exist, usage is hidden.
- Details: see [Usage tracking](/concepts/usage-tracking).

### `health`
Fetch health from the running Gateway.

Options:
- `--json`
- `--timeout <ms>`
- `--verbose`

### `sessions`
List stored conversation sessions.

Options:
- `--json`
- `--verbose`
- `--store <path>`
- `--active <minutes>`

## Gateway

### `gateway`
Run the WebSocket Gateway.

Options:
- `--port <port>`
- `--bind <loopback|tailnet|lan|auto>`
- `--token <token>`
- `--auth <token|password>`
- `--password <password>`
- `--tailscale <off|serve|funnel>`
- `--tailscale-reset-on-exit`
- `--allow-unconfigured`
- `--force` (kill existing listener on port)
- `--verbose`
- `--ws-log <auto|full|compact>`
- `--compact` (alias for `--ws-log compact`)

### `daemon`
Manage the Gateway service (launchd/systemd/schtasks).

Subcommands:
- `daemon status` (probes the Gateway RPC by default)
- `daemon install` (service install)
- `daemon uninstall`
- `daemon start`
- `daemon stop`
- `daemon restart`

Notes:
- `daemon status` probes the Gateway RPC by default using the daemon’s resolved port/config (override with `--url/--token/--password`).
- `daemon status` supports `--no-probe`, `--deep`, and `--json` for scripting.
- `daemon status` also surfaces legacy or extra gateway services when it can detect them (`--deep` adds system-level scans).
- `daemon status` prints which config path the CLI uses vs which config the daemon likely uses (service env), plus the resolved probe target URL.
- `daemon install` defaults to Node runtime; use `--runtime bun` only when WhatsApp is disabled.
- `daemon install` options: `--port`, `--runtime`, `--token`, `--force`.

### `logs`
Tail Gateway file logs via RPC.

Examples:
```bash
clawdbot logs --follow
clawdbot logs --limit 200
```

### `gateway <subcommand>`
Gateway RPC helpers (use `--url`, `--token`, `--password`, `--timeout`, `--expect-final` for each).

Subcommands:
- `gateway call <method> [--params <json>]`
- `gateway health`
- `gateway status`

Common RPCs:
- `config.apply` (validate + write config + restart + wake)
- `update.run` (run update + restart + wake)

## Models

See [/concepts/models](/concepts/models) for fallback behavior and scanning strategy.

### `models` (root)
`clawdbot models` is an alias for `models status`.

### `models list`
Options:
- `--all`
- `--local`
- `--provider <name>`
- `--json`
- `--plain`

### `models status`
Options:
- `--json`
- `--plain`

### `models set <model>`
Set `agent.model.primary`.

### `models set-image <model>`
Set `agent.imageModel.primary`.

### `models aliases list|add|remove`
Options:
- `list`: `--json`, `--plain`
- `add <alias> <model>`
- `remove <alias>`

### `models fallbacks list|add|remove|clear`
Options:
- `list`: `--json`, `--plain`
- `add <model>`
- `remove <model>`
- `clear`

### `models image-fallbacks list|add|remove|clear`
Options:
- `list`: `--json`, `--plain`
- `add <model>`
- `remove <model>`
- `clear`

### `models scan`
Options:
- `--min-params <b>`
- `--max-age-days <days>`
- `--provider <name>`
- `--max-candidates <n>`
- `--timeout <ms>`
- `--concurrency <n>`
- `--yes`
- `--no-input`
- `--set-default`
- `--set-image`
- `--json`

## Cron + wake

### `wake`
Enqueue a system event and optionally trigger a heartbeat (Gateway RPC).

Required:
- `--text <text>`

Options:
- `--mode <now|next-heartbeat>`
- `--json`
- `--url`, `--token`, `--timeout`, `--expect-final`

### `cron`
Manage scheduled jobs (Gateway RPC). See [/automation/cron-jobs](/automation/cron-jobs).

Subcommands:
- `cron status [--json]`
- `cron list [--all] [--json]` (table output by default; use `--json` for raw)
- `cron add` (alias: `create`; requires `--name` and exactly one of `--at` | `--every` | `--cron`, and exactly one payload of `--system-event` | `--message`)
- `cron edit <id>` (patch fields)
- `cron rm <id>` (aliases: `remove`, `delete`)
- `cron enable <id>`
- `cron disable <id>`
- `cron runs --id <id> [--limit <n>]`
- `cron run <id> [--force]`

All `cron` commands accept `--url`, `--token`, `--timeout`, `--expect-final`.

## Nodes

`nodes` talks to the Gateway and targets paired nodes. See [/nodes](/nodes).

Common options:
- `--url`, `--token`, `--timeout`, `--json`

Subcommands:
- `nodes status`
- `nodes describe --node <id|name|ip>`
- `nodes list`
- `nodes pending`
- `nodes approve <requestId>`
- `nodes reject <requestId>`
- `nodes rename --node <id|name|ip> --name <displayName>`
- `nodes invoke --node <id|name|ip> --command <command> [--params <json>] [--invoke-timeout <ms>] [--idempotency-key <key>]`
- `nodes run --node <id|name|ip> [--cwd <path>] [--env KEY=VAL] [--command-timeout <ms>] [--needs-screen-recording] [--invoke-timeout <ms>] <command...>` (mac only)
- `nodes notify --node <id|name|ip> [--title <text>] [--body <text>] [--sound <name>] [--priority <passive|active|timeSensitive>] [--delivery <system|overlay|auto>] [--invoke-timeout <ms>]` (mac only)

Camera:
- `nodes camera list --node <id|name|ip>`
- `nodes camera snap --node <id|name|ip> [--facing front|back|both] [--device-id <id>] [--max-width <px>] [--quality <0-1>] [--delay-ms <ms>] [--invoke-timeout <ms>]`
- `nodes camera clip --node <id|name|ip> [--facing front|back] [--device-id <id>] [--duration <ms|10s|1m>] [--no-audio] [--invoke-timeout <ms>]`

Canvas + screen:
- `nodes canvas snapshot --node <id|name|ip> [--format png|jpg|jpeg] [--max-width <px>] [--quality <0-1>] [--invoke-timeout <ms>]`
- `nodes canvas present --node <id|name|ip> [--target <urlOrPath>] [--x <px>] [--y <px>] [--width <px>] [--height <px>] [--invoke-timeout <ms>]`
- `nodes canvas hide --node <id|name|ip> [--invoke-timeout <ms>]`
- `nodes canvas navigate <url> --node <id|name|ip> [--invoke-timeout <ms>]`
- `nodes canvas eval [<js>] --node <id|name|ip> [--js <code>] [--invoke-timeout <ms>]`
- `nodes canvas a2ui push --node <id|name|ip> (--jsonl <path> | --text <text>) [--invoke-timeout <ms>]`
- `nodes canvas a2ui reset --node <id|name|ip> [--invoke-timeout <ms>]`
- `nodes screen record --node <id|name|ip> [--screen <index>] [--duration <ms|10s>] [--fps <n>] [--no-audio] [--out <path>] [--invoke-timeout <ms>]`

Location:
- `nodes location get --node <id|name|ip> [--max-age <ms>] [--accuracy <coarse|balanced|precise>] [--location-timeout <ms>] [--invoke-timeout <ms>]`

## Browser

Browser control CLI (dedicated Chrome/Chromium). See [/tools/browser](/tools/browser).

Common options:
- `--url <controlUrl>`
- `--browser-profile <name>`
- `--json`

Manage:
- `browser status`
- `browser start`
- `browser stop`
- `browser reset-profile`
- `browser tabs`
- `browser open <url>`
- `browser focus <targetId>`
- `browser close [targetId]`
- `browser profiles`
- `browser create-profile --name <name> [--color <hex>] [--cdp-url <url>]`
- `browser delete-profile --name <name>`

Inspect:
- `browser screenshot [targetId] [--full-page] [--ref <ref>] [--element <selector>] [--type png|jpeg]`
- `browser snapshot [--format aria|ai] [--target-id <id>] [--limit <n>] [--out <path>]`

Actions:
- `browser navigate <url> [--target-id <id>]`
- `browser resize <width> <height> [--target-id <id>]`
- `browser click <ref> [--double] [--button <left|right|middle>] [--modifiers <csv>] [--target-id <id>]`
- `browser type <ref> <text> [--submit] [--slowly] [--target-id <id>]`
- `browser press <key> [--target-id <id>]`
- `browser hover <ref> [--target-id <id>]`
- `browser drag <startRef> <endRef> [--target-id <id>]`
- `browser select <ref> <values...> [--target-id <id>]`
- `browser upload <paths...> [--ref <ref>] [--input-ref <ref>] [--element <selector>] [--target-id <id>] [--timeout-ms <ms>]`
- `browser fill [--fields <json>] [--fields-file <path>] [--target-id <id>]`
- `browser dialog --accept|--dismiss [--prompt <text>] [--target-id <id>] [--timeout-ms <ms>]`
- `browser wait [--time <ms>] [--text <value>] [--text-gone <value>] [--target-id <id>]`
- `browser evaluate --fn <code> [--ref <ref>] [--target-id <id>]`
- `browser console [--level <error|warn|info>] [--target-id <id>]`
- `browser pdf [--target-id <id>]`

## Docs search

### `docs [query...]`
Search the live docs index.

## TUI

### `tui`
Open the terminal UI connected to the Gateway.

Options:
- `--url <url>`
- `--token <token>`
- `--password <password>`
- `--session <key>`
- `--deliver`
- `--thinking <level>`
- `--timeout-ms <ms>`
- `--history-limit <n>`

Commit message:

feat(models): add oauth auth health

docs/cli/index.md, after:

---
summary: "Clawdbot CLI reference for `clawdbot` commands, subcommands, and options"
read_when:
  - Adding or modifying CLI commands or options
  - Documenting new command surfaces
---

# CLI reference

This page describes the current CLI behavior. If commands change, update this doc.

## Global flags

- `--dev`: isolate state under `~/.clawdbot-dev` and shift default ports.
- `--profile <name>`: isolate state under `~/.clawdbot-<name>`.
- `-V`, `--version`, `-v`: print version and exit.

## Output styling

- ANSI colors and progress indicators only render in TTY sessions.
- OSC-8 hyperlinks render as clickable links in supported terminals; otherwise we fall back to plain URLs.
- `--json` (and `--plain` where supported) disables styling for clean output.
- Long-running commands show a progress indicator (OSC 9;4 when supported).

## Color palette

Clawdbot uses a lobster palette for CLI output.

- `accent` (#FF5A2D): headings, provider labels, primary highlights.
- `accentBright` (#FF7A3D): command names, emphasis.
- `accentDim` (#D14A22): secondary highlight text.
- `info` (#FF8A5B): informational values.
- `success` (#2FBF71): success states.
- `warn` (#FFB020): warnings, fallbacks, attention.
- `error` (#E23D2D): errors, failures.
- `muted` (#8B7F77): de-emphasis, metadata.

## Command tree

```
clawdbot [--dev] [--profile <name>] <command>
  setup
  onboard
  configure (alias: config)
  doctor
  providers
    list
    status
    add
    remove
    login
    logout
  skills
    list
    info
    check
  send
  poll
  agent
  agents
    list
    add
    delete
  status
  health
  sessions
  gateway
    call
    health
    status
  models
    list
    status
    set
    set-image
    aliases list|add|remove
    fallbacks list|add|remove|clear
    image-fallbacks list|add|remove|clear
    scan
  wake
  cron
    status
    list
    add
    edit
    rm
    enable
    disable
    runs
    run
  nodes
    status
    describe
    list
    pending
    approve
    reject
    rename
    invoke
    run
    notify
    camera list|snap|clip
    canvas snapshot
    screen record
    location get
  browser
    status
    start
    stop
    reset-profile
    tabs
    open
    focus
    close
    profiles
    create-profile
    delete-profile
    screenshot
    snapshot
    navigate
    resize
    click
    type
    press
    hover
    drag
    select
    upload
    fill
    dialog
    wait
    evaluate
    console
    pdf
  hooks
    gmail setup|run
  pairing
    list
    approve
  docs
  dns
    setup
  tui
```

## Setup + onboarding

### `setup`
Initialize config + workspace.

Options:
- `--workspace <dir>`: agent workspace path (default `~/clawd`).
- `--wizard`: run the onboarding wizard.
- `--non-interactive`: run wizard without prompts.
- `--mode <local|remote>`: wizard mode.
- `--remote-url <url>`: remote Gateway URL.
- `--remote-token <token>`: remote Gateway token.

Wizard auto-runs when any wizard flags are present (`--non-interactive`, `--mode`, `--remote-url`, `--remote-token`).

### `onboard`
Interactive wizard to set up gateway, workspace, and skills.

Options:
- `--workspace <dir>`
- `--non-interactive`
- `--mode <local|remote>`
- `--auth-choice <oauth|claude-cli|openai-codex|codex-cli|antigravity|apiKey|minimax|skip>`
- `--anthropic-api-key <key>`
- `--gateway-port <port>`
- `--gateway-bind <loopback|lan|tailnet|auto>`
- `--gateway-auth <off|token|password>`
- `--gateway-token <token>`
- `--gateway-password <password>`
- `--remote-url <url>`
- `--remote-token <token>`
- `--tailscale <off|serve|funnel>`
- `--tailscale-reset-on-exit`
- `--install-daemon`
- `--daemon-runtime <node|bun>`
- `--skip-skills`
- `--skip-health`
- `--node-manager <npm|pnpm|bun>`
- `--json`

### `configure` / `config`
Interactive configuration wizard (models, providers, skills, gateway).

### `doctor`
Health checks + quick fixes (config + gateway + legacy services).

Options:
- `--no-workspace-suggestions`: disable workspace memory hints.
- `--yes`: accept defaults without prompting (headless).
- `--non-interactive`: skip prompts; apply safe migrations only.
- `--deep`: scan system services for extra gateway installs.

## Provider helpers

### `providers`
Manage chat provider accounts (WhatsApp/Telegram/Discord/Slack/Signal/iMessage).

Subcommands:
- `providers list`: show configured chat providers and auth profiles (Claude Code + Codex CLI OAuth sync included).
- `providers status`: check gateway reachability and provider health (`--probe` to verify credentials and run small provider audits; use `status --deep` for local-only probes).
- Tip: `providers status` prints warnings with suggested fixes when it can detect common misconfigurations (then points you to `clawdbot doctor`).
- `providers add`: wizard-style setup when no flags are passed; flags switch to non-interactive mode.
- `providers remove`: disable by default; pass `--delete` to remove config entries without prompts.
- `providers login`: interactive provider login (WhatsApp Web only).
- `providers logout`: log out of a provider session (WhatsApp Web only).

Common options:
- `--provider <name>`: `whatsapp|telegram|discord|slack|signal|imessage`
- `--account <id>`: provider account id (default `default`)
- `--name <label>`: display name for the account

`providers login` options:
- `--provider <provider>` (default `whatsapp`; supports `whatsapp`/`web`)
- `--account <id>`
- `--verbose`

`providers logout` options:
- `--provider <provider>` (default `whatsapp`; supports `whatsapp`/`web`)
- `--account <id>`

`providers list` options:
- `--no-usage`: skip provider usage/quota snapshots (OAuth/API-backed only).
- `--json`: output JSON (includes usage unless `--no-usage` is set).

OAuth sync sources:
- Claude Code → `anthropic:claude-cli`
  - macOS: Keychain item "Claude Code-credentials" (choose "Always Allow" to avoid launchd prompts)
  - Linux/Windows: `~/.claude/.credentials.json`
- `~/.codex/auth.json` → `openai-codex:codex-cli`

More detail: [/concepts/oauth](/concepts/oauth)

Examples:
```bash
clawdbot providers add --provider telegram --account alerts --name "Alerts Bot" --token $TELEGRAM_BOT_TOKEN
clawdbot providers add --provider discord --account work --name "Work Bot" --token $DISCORD_BOT_TOKEN
clawdbot providers remove --provider discord --account work --delete
clawdbot providers status --probe
clawdbot status --deep
```

### `skills`
List and inspect available skills plus readiness info.

Subcommands:
- `skills list`: list skills (default when no subcommand).
- `skills info <name>`: show details for one skill.
- `skills check`: summary of ready vs missing requirements.

Options:
- `--eligible`: show only ready skills.
- `--json`: output JSON (no styling).
- `-v`, `--verbose`: include missing requirements detail.

Tip: use `npx clawdhub` to search, install, and sync skills.

### `pairing`
Approve DM pairing requests across providers.

Subcommands:
- `pairing list --provider <telegram|signal|imessage|discord|slack|whatsapp> [--json]`
- `pairing approve --provider <...> <code> [--notify]`

### `hooks gmail`
Gmail Pub/Sub hook setup + runner. See [/automation/gmail-pubsub](/automation/gmail-pubsub).

Subcommands:
- `hooks gmail setup` (requires `--account <email>`; supports `--project`, `--topic`, `--subscription`, `--label`, `--hook-url`, `--hook-token`, `--push-token`, `--bind`, `--port`, `--path`, `--include-body`, `--max-bytes`, `--renew-minutes`, `--tailscale`, `--tailscale-path`, `--push-endpoint`, `--json`)
- `hooks gmail run` (runtime overrides for the same flags)

### `dns setup`
Wide-area discovery DNS helper (CoreDNS + Tailscale). See [/gateway/discovery](/gateway/discovery).

Options:
- `--apply`: install/update CoreDNS config (requires sudo; macOS only).

## Messaging + agent

### `send`
Send a message through a provider.

Required:
- `--to <dest>`
- `--message <text>`

Options:
- `--media <path-or-url>`
- `--gif-playback`
- `--provider <whatsapp|telegram|discord|slack|signal|imessage>`
- `--account <id>` (WhatsApp)
- `--dry-run`
- `--json`
- `--verbose`

### `poll`
Create a poll (WhatsApp or Discord).

Required:
- `--to <id>`
- `--question <text>`
- `--option <choice>` (repeat 2-12 times)

Options:
- `--max-selections <n>`
- `--duration-hours <n>` (Discord)
- `--provider <whatsapp|discord>`
- `--dry-run`
- `--json`
- `--verbose`

### `agent`
Run one agent turn via the Gateway (or `--local` embedded).

Required:
- `--message <text>`

Options:
- `--to <dest>` (for session key and optional delivery)
- `--session-id <id>`
- `--thinking <off|minimal|low|medium|high>`
- `--verbose <on|off>`
- `--provider <whatsapp|telegram|discord|slack|signal|imessage>`
- `--local`
- `--deliver`
- `--json`
- `--timeout <seconds>`

### `agents`
Manage isolated agents (workspaces + auth + routing).

#### `agents list`
List configured agents.

Options:
- `--json`
- `--bindings`

#### `agents add [name]`
Add a new isolated agent. Runs the guided wizard unless flags (or `--non-interactive`) are passed; `--workspace` is required in non-interactive mode.

Options:
- `--workspace <dir>`
- `--model <id>`
- `--agent-dir <dir>`
- `--bind <provider[:accountId]>` (repeatable)
- `--non-interactive`
- `--json`

Binding specs use `provider[:accountId]`. When `accountId` is omitted for WhatsApp, the default account id is used.

#### `agents delete <id>`
Delete an agent and prune its workspace + state.

Options:
- `--force`
- `--json`

### `status`
Show linked session health and recent recipients.

Options:
- `--json`
- `--deep` (probe providers)
- `--usage` (show provider usage/quota)
- `--timeout <ms>`
- `--verbose`

### Usage tracking
Clawdbot can surface provider usage/quota when OAuth/API creds are available.

Surfaces:
- `/status` (adds a short usage line when available)
- `clawdbot status --usage` (prints full provider breakdown)
- macOS menu bar (Usage section under Context)

Notes:
- Data comes directly from provider usage endpoints (no estimates).
- Providers: Anthropic, GitHub Copilot, Gemini CLI, Antigravity, OpenAI Codex OAuth, plus z.ai when an API key is configured.
- If no matching credentials exist, usage is hidden.
- Details: see [Usage tracking](/concepts/usage-tracking).

### `health`
Fetch health from the running Gateway.

Options:
- `--json`
- `--timeout <ms>`
- `--verbose`

### `sessions`
List stored conversation sessions.

Options:
- `--json`
- `--verbose`
- `--store <path>`
- `--active <minutes>`

## Gateway

### `gateway`
Run the WebSocket Gateway.

Options:
- `--port <port>`
- `--bind <loopback|tailnet|lan|auto>`
- `--token <token>`
- `--auth <token|password>`
- `--password <password>`
- `--tailscale <off|serve|funnel>`
- `--tailscale-reset-on-exit`
- `--allow-unconfigured`
- `--force` (kill existing listener on port)
- `--verbose`
- `--ws-log <auto|full|compact>`
- `--compact` (alias for `--ws-log compact`)

### `daemon`
Manage the Gateway service (launchd/systemd/schtasks).

Subcommands:
- `daemon status` (probes the Gateway RPC by default)
- `daemon install` (service install)
- `daemon uninstall`
- `daemon start`
- `daemon stop`
- `daemon restart`

Notes:
- `daemon status` probes the Gateway RPC by default using the daemon’s resolved port/config (override with `--url/--token/--password`).
- `daemon status` supports `--no-probe`, `--deep`, and `--json` for scripting.
- `daemon status` also surfaces legacy or extra gateway services when it can detect them (`--deep` adds system-level scans).
- `daemon status` prints which config path the CLI uses vs which config the daemon likely uses (service env), plus the resolved probe target URL.
- `daemon install` defaults to Node runtime; use `--runtime bun` only when WhatsApp is disabled.
- `daemon install` options: `--port`, `--runtime`, `--token`, `--force`.

### `logs`
Tail Gateway file logs via RPC.

Examples:
```bash
clawdbot logs --follow
clawdbot logs --limit 200
```

### `gateway <subcommand>`
Gateway RPC helpers (use `--url`, `--token`, `--password`, `--timeout`, `--expect-final` for each).

Subcommands:
- `gateway call <method> [--params <json>]`
- `gateway health`
- `gateway status`

Common RPCs:
- `config.apply` (validate + write config + restart + wake)
- `update.run` (run update + restart + wake)

## Models

See [/concepts/models](/concepts/models) for fallback behavior and scanning strategy.

### `models` (root)
`clawdbot models` is an alias for `models status`.

### `models list`
Options:
- `--all`
- `--local`
- `--provider <name>`
- `--json`
- `--plain`

### `models status`
Options:
- `--json`
- `--plain`
- `--check` (exit 1=expired/missing, 2=expiring)

Always includes the auth overview and OAuth expiry status for profiles in the auth store.

### `models set <model>`
Set `agent.model.primary`.

### `models set-image <model>`
Set `agent.imageModel.primary`.

### `models aliases list|add|remove`
Options:
- `list`: `--json`, `--plain`
- `add <alias> <model>`
- `remove <alias>`

### `models fallbacks list|add|remove|clear`
Options:
- `list`: `--json`, `--plain`
- `add <model>`
- `remove <model>`
- `clear`

### `models image-fallbacks list|add|remove|clear`
Options:
- `list`: `--json`, `--plain`
- `add <model>`
- `remove <model>`
- `clear`

### `models scan`
Options:
- `--min-params <b>`
- `--max-age-days <days>`
- `--provider <name>`
- `--max-candidates <n>`
- `--timeout <ms>`
- `--concurrency <n>`
- `--yes`
- `--no-input`
- `--set-default`
- `--set-image`
- `--json`

## Cron + wake

### `wake`
Enqueue a system event and optionally trigger a heartbeat (Gateway RPC).

Required:
- `--text <text>`

Options:
- `--mode <now|next-heartbeat>`
- `--json`
- `--url`, `--token`, `--timeout`, `--expect-final`

### `cron`
Manage scheduled jobs (Gateway RPC). See [/automation/cron-jobs](/automation/cron-jobs).

Subcommands:
- `cron status [--json]`
- `cron list [--all] [--json]` (table output by default; use `--json` for raw)
- `cron add` (alias: `create`; requires `--name` and exactly one of `--at` | `--every` | `--cron`, and exactly one payload of `--system-event` | `--message`)
- `cron edit <id>` (patch fields)
- `cron rm <id>` (aliases: `remove`, `delete`)
- `cron enable <id>`
- `cron disable <id>`
- `cron runs --id <id> [--limit <n>]`
- `cron run <id> [--force]`

All `cron` commands accept `--url`, `--token`, `--timeout`, `--expect-final`.

## Nodes

`nodes` talks to the Gateway and targets paired nodes. See [/nodes](/nodes).

Common options:
- `--url`, `--token`, `--timeout`, `--json`

Subcommands:
- `nodes status`
- `nodes describe --node <id|name|ip>`
- `nodes list`
- `nodes pending`
- `nodes approve <requestId>`
- `nodes reject <requestId>`
- `nodes rename --node <id|name|ip> --name <displayName>`
- `nodes invoke --node <id|name|ip> --command <command> [--params <json>] [--invoke-timeout <ms>] [--idempotency-key <key>]`
- `nodes run --node <id|name|ip> [--cwd <path>] [--env KEY=VAL] [--command-timeout <ms>] [--needs-screen-recording] [--invoke-timeout <ms>] <command...>` (mac only)
- `nodes notify --node <id|name|ip> [--title <text>] [--body <text>] [--sound <name>] [--priority <passive|active|timeSensitive>] [--delivery <system|overlay|auto>] [--invoke-timeout <ms>]` (mac only)

Camera:
- `nodes camera list --node <id|name|ip>`
- `nodes camera snap --node <id|name|ip> [--facing front|back|both] [--device-id <id>] [--max-width <px>] [--quality <0-1>] [--delay-ms <ms>] [--invoke-timeout <ms>]`
- `nodes camera clip --node <id|name|ip> [--facing front|back] [--device-id <id>] [--duration <ms|10s|1m>] [--no-audio] [--invoke-timeout <ms>]`

Canvas + screen:
- `nodes canvas snapshot --node <id|name|ip> [--format png|jpg|jpeg] [--max-width <px>] [--quality <0-1>] [--invoke-timeout <ms>]`
- `nodes canvas present --node <id|name|ip> [--target <urlOrPath>] [--x <px>] [--y <px>] [--width <px>] [--height <px>] [--invoke-timeout <ms>]`
- `nodes canvas hide --node <id|name|ip> [--invoke-timeout <ms>]`
- `nodes canvas navigate <url> --node <id|name|ip> [--invoke-timeout <ms>]`
- `nodes canvas eval [<js>] --node <id|name|ip> [--js <code>] [--invoke-timeout <ms>]`
- `nodes canvas a2ui push --node <id|name|ip> (--jsonl <path> | --text <text>) [--invoke-timeout <ms>]`
- `nodes canvas a2ui reset --node <id|name|ip> [--invoke-timeout <ms>]`
- `nodes screen record --node <id|name|ip> [--screen <index>] [--duration <ms|10s>] [--fps <n>] [--no-audio] [--out <path>] [--invoke-timeout <ms>]`

Location:
- `nodes location get --node <id|name|ip> [--max-age <ms>] [--accuracy <coarse|balanced|precise>] [--location-timeout <ms>] [--invoke-timeout <ms>]`

## Browser

Browser control CLI (dedicated Chrome/Chromium). See [/tools/browser](/tools/browser).

Common options:
- `--url <controlUrl>`
- `--browser-profile <name>`
- `--json`

Manage:
- `browser status`
- `browser start`
- `browser stop`
- `browser reset-profile`
- `browser tabs`
- `browser open <url>`
- `browser focus <targetId>`
- `browser close [targetId]`
- `browser profiles`
- `browser create-profile --name <name> [--color <hex>] [--cdp-url <url>]`
- `browser delete-profile --name <name>`

Inspect:
- `browser screenshot [targetId] [--full-page] [--ref <ref>] [--element <selector>] [--type png|jpeg]`
- `browser snapshot [--format aria|ai] [--target-id <id>] [--limit <n>] [--out <path>]`

Actions:
- `browser navigate <url> [--target-id <id>]`
- `browser resize <width> <height> [--target-id <id>]`
- `browser click <ref> [--double] [--button <left|right|middle>] [--modifiers <csv>] [--target-id <id>]`
- `browser type <ref> <text> [--submit] [--slowly] [--target-id <id>]`
- `browser press <key> [--target-id <id>]`
- `browser hover <ref> [--target-id <id>]`
- `browser drag <startRef> <endRef> [--target-id <id>]`
- `browser select <ref> <values...> [--target-id <id>]`
- `browser upload <paths...> [--ref <ref>] [--input-ref <ref>] [--element <selector>] [--target-id <id>] [--timeout-ms <ms>]`
- `browser fill [--fields <json>] [--fields-file <path>] [--target-id <id>]`
- `browser dialog --accept|--dismiss [--prompt <text>] [--target-id <id>] [--timeout-ms <ms>]`
- `browser wait [--time <ms>] [--text <value>] [--text-gone <value>] [--target-id <id>]`
- `browser evaluate --fn <code> [--ref <ref>] [--target-id <id>]`
- `browser console [--level <error|warn|info>] [--target-id <id>]`
- `browser pdf [--target-id <id>]`

## Docs search

### `docs [query...]`
Search the live docs index.

## TUI

### `tui`
Open the terminal UI connected to the Gateway.

Options:
- `--url <url>`
- `--token <token>`
- `--password <password>`
- `--session <key>`
- `--deliver`
- `--thinking <level>`
- `--timeout-ms <ms>`
- `--history-limit <n>`
